Guide to Kubernetes (#10368)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/guides/deployment/kubernetes.md

---
description: Learn how to run flows on Kubernetes using containers
tags:
    - kubernetes
    - containers
    - orchestration
    - infrastructure
    - deployments
search:
  boost: 2
---

# Running flows with Kubernetes

> This guide will walk you through running your flows on Kubernetes. Though much of the guide is general to any Kubernetes cluster, there are differences between the managed Kubernetes offerings between cloud providers, especially when it comes to container registries and access management. We'll focus on the big three: Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS).

Author: I'd prefer to merge as is. I'll make the change and then let's :shipit:

> This guide will walk you through running your flows on Kubernetes. One big advantage of Kubernetes is that most major cloud providers have a managed offering. This means you can leverage the ecosystem of your preferred cloud provider while still maintaining portability. Though much of the guide is general to all cloud providers, there differences, especially when it comes to container registries and access management. We'll focus on the big three: Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will walk you through running your flows on Kubernetes. Though much of the guide is general to any Kubernetes cluster, there are differences between the managed Kubernetes offerings between cloud providers, especially when it comes to container registries and access management. We'll focus on the big three: Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS), Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE), Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS).
```

Reviewer: I think we should assume that the user is already familiar with the advantages/disadvantages around kubernetes.

## Prerequisites

Before we begin, there are a few pre-requisites:

1. A Prefect Cloud account
2. A cloud provider (AWS, GCP, or Azure) account
3. [Install](/getting-started/installation/) Python and Prefect

!!! Note "Administrator Access"

>     Though not strictly necessary, you may want to ensure you have admin access, both in Prefect Cloud and in your cloud provider. Admin access is only necessary during the initial setup and can be downgraded after. Consult with your friendly neighborhood DevOps professional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Though not strictly necessary, you may want to ensure you have admin access, both in Prefect Cloud and in your cloud provider. Admin access is only necessary during the initial setup and can be downgraded after. 
```

Reviewer: This is fun but we are steering away from this tone throughout the docs.

    ```bash
    # Replace the cluster name with your own value
    eksctl create cluster --fargate --name <CLUSTER-NAME>
    ```

<!-- === "GCP"
    TODO

=== "Azure"
    TODO -->

## Create a container registry

Besides a cluster, the other critical resource we'll need is a container registry. This is also not strictly required, but in most cases you'll want to use custom images and/or have more control over where images are stored. If you already have one, skip ahead to the next section.

=== "AWS"

    Let's create a registry using the AWS CLI and authenticate the docker daemon to said registry:

    ```bash
    # Replace the image name with your own value
    aws ecr create-repository --repository-name <IMAGE-NAME>

    # Login to ECR
    # Replace the region and account ID with your own values
    aws ecr get-login-password --region <REGION> | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin <AWS_ACCOUNT_ID>.dkr.ecr.<REGION>.amazonaws.com
    ```

<!-- === "GCP"
    TODO

=== "Azure"
    TODO -->

## Create a work pool

> Now let's switch over to Prefect Cloud where we'll create a new work pool. Hit the plus button on the work pools page and choose Kubernetes from the list of options. On the next page set Finished Job TTL to 60 so that completed flow runs are cleaned up, and set Pod Watch Timeout Seconds to 300, especially if you are using a __serverless__ type node pool since these tend to have longer startup times. You may also want to set a custom namespace, such as `prefect`. Generally you should leave the cluster config blank as the worker will already be provisioned with appropriate access and permissions. Finally, leave the image field blank as we'll override that in each deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's switch over to Prefect Cloud, where we'll create a new work pool. Hit the plus button on the work pools page and choose Kubernetes from the list of options. On the next page, set Finished Job TTL to 60 so that completed flow runs are cleaned up, and set Pod Watch Timeout Seconds to 300, especially if you are using a __serverless__ type node pool since these tend to have longer startup times. You may also want to set a custom namespace, such as `prefect`. Generally you should leave the cluster config blank as the worker will already be provisioned with appropriate access and permissions. Finally, leave the image field blank as we'll override that in each deployment.
```

## Deploy a worker using Helm

> With our cluster and work pool created, it's time to deploy a worker which will eventually take our flows and run them as Kubernetes jobs. The best way to deploy a worker is using Helm. Follow [this guide](/guides/deployment/helm-worker/) and then come back here. Go ahead, we'll wait.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With our cluster and work pool created, it's time to deploy a worker, which will take our flows and run them as Kubernetes jobs. The best way to deploy a worker is using Helm. Follow [this guide](/guides/deployment/helm-worker/) and then come back here.
```

Reviewer: Sorry to keep doing this. This tone is cool in isolation but not what we're going for docs wide.

## Define a flow

> We need a flow to run, so let's start simple with a flow that just logs a message. In a directory named `flows`, create a file named `hello.py` with the following contents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's start simple with a flow that just logs a message. In a directory named `flows`, create a file named `hello.py` with the following contents:
```

    image_name: "{{ $PREFECT_IMAGE_NAME }}"
    tag: latest
    dockerfile: auto
    platform: "linux/amd64"

# push section allows you to manage if and how this project is uploaded to remote locations
push:
- prefect_docker.deployments.steps.push_docker_image:
    requires: prefect-docker>=0.3.11
    image_name: "{{ build-image.image_name }}"
    tag: "{{ build-image.tag }}"

# pull section allows you to provide instructions for cloning this project in remote locations
pull:
- prefect.deployments.steps.set_working_directory:
    directory: /opt/prefect/flows

# the definitions section allows you to define reusable components for your deployments
definitions:
  tags: &common_tags
    - "eks"
  work_pool: &common_work_pool
    name: "kubernetes"
    job_variables:
      image: "{{ build-image.image }}"

# the deployments section allows you to provide configuration for deploying flows
deployments:
- name: "default"
  tags: *common_tags
  schedule: null
  entrypoint: "flows/hello.py:hello"
  work_pool: *common_work_pool

- name: "arthur"
  tags: *common_tags
  schedule: null
  entrypoint: "flows/hello.py:hello"
  parameters:
    name: "Arthur"
  work_pool: *common_work_pool
```

> We define two deployments of the `hello` flow: `default` and `arthur`. Note that by specifying `dockerfile: auto`, Prefect will automatically create a dockerfile that installs any `requirements.txt` and copies over the current directory. You can of course pass a custom Dockerfile instead with `dockerfile: Dockerfile` or `dockerfile: path/to/Dockerfile`. Also note that we are specifically building for the `linux/amd64` platform. This is often necessary when images are built on Macs with M series chips but run on cloud provider instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We define two deployments of the `hello` flow: `default` and `arthur`. Note that by specifying `dockerfile: auto`, Prefect will automatically create a dockerfile that installs any `requirements.txt` and copies over the current directory. You can pass a custom Dockerfile instead with `dockerfile: Dockerfile` or `dockerfile: path/to/Dockerfile`. Also note that we are specifically building for the `linux/amd64` platform. This is often necessary when images are built on Macs with M series chips but run on cloud provider instances.
```
